Paper: pyDAMPF HV Guzman (#714)
scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings: papers/pyDAMPF_HVGuzman/pyDAMPF.rst

:institution: Carrera de Física, Universidad Mayor de San Andrés. Campus Universitario Cota Cota. La Paz, Bolivia

:author: Gonzalo Marcelo Ramírez-Ávila
:email: mramirez@fcpn.edu.bo
:institution: Instituto de Investigaciones Físicas.
:institution: Carrera de Física, Universidad Mayor de San Andrés. Campus Universitario Cota Cota. La Paz, Bolivia

:author: Horacio V. Guzman
:email: horacio.guzman@ijs.si
:institution: Department of Theoretical Physics
:institution: Jožef Stefan Institute, Jamova 39, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia
:institution: Instituto de Investigaciones Físicas.
:institution: Carrera de Física, Universidad Mayor de San Andrés. Campus Universitario Cota Cota. La Paz, Bolivia
:orcid: 0000-0003-2564-3005
:corresponding:

:bibliography: references

========================================================================================================================
pyDAMPF: a Python package for modeling mechanical properties of hygroscopic materials under interaction with a nanoprobe
========================================================================================================================

.. class:: abstract

>    pyDAMPF is a tool oriented to the Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) community, which allows the simulation of the physical properties of materials under variable relative humidity (RH). In particular, pyDAMPF is mainly focused on the mechanical properties of polymeric hygroscopic nanofibers that plays an essential role in designing of tissue scaffolds for implants and filtering devices. Those mechanical properties have been mostly studied from a very coarse perspective reaching a micrometer scale. However, at the nanoscale, the mechanical response of polymeric fibers becomes cumbersome due to both experimental and theoretical challenges. For example, the response of polymeric fibers to RH demands advanced models that consider sub-nanometric changes in the local structure of each single polymer chain. While from an experimental viewpoint, choosing the optimal cantilevers to scan the fibers under variable RH is not trivial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   pyDAMPF is a tool oriented to the Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) community, which allows the simulation of the physical properties of materials under variable relative humidity (RH). In particular, pyDAMPF is mainly focused on the mechanical properties of polymeric hygroscopic nanofibers that play an essential role in designing tissue scaffolds for implants and filtering devices. Those mechanical properties have been mostly studied from a very coarse perspective reaching a micrometer scale. However, at the nanoscale, the mechanical response of polymeric fibers becomes cumbersome due to both experimental and theoretical challenges. For example, the response of polymeric fibers to RH demands advanced models that consider sub-nanometric changes in the local structure of each single polymer chain. From an experimental viewpoint, choosing the optimal cantilevers to scan the fibers under variable RH is not trivial.
```

> We present four scenarios comparing a total of seven cantilevers and the same sample, where we use as a test-case Poly-Vinyl Acetate (PVA) fiber. The first scenario (Figure `1 <#fig1a>`__\ (a)) illustrates the difference between air and a moist environment. On the second one, a cantilever, only a very soft and stiff cantilever spring constants are compared (see Figure `1 <#fig1b>`__\ (b)).At the same time, the different volumes along the 30 cantilevers is depicted in Figure `1 <#fig1c>`__\ (c). A final and mostly very common comparison is scenario 4, by comparing one of the most sensitive parameters to the force of the tip’s radii (see Figure `1 <#fig1d>`__\ (d)).

Reviewer: I think it will be necessary to cite figures with :ref:`fig1a` and so on
```suggestion
We present four scenarios comparing a total of seven cantilevers and the same sample, where we use as a test-case Poly-Vinyl Acetate (PVA) fiber. The first scenario (Figure :ref:`fig1a`) illustrates the difference between air and a moist environment. On the second one, a cantilever, only a very soft and stiff cantilever spring constants are compared (see Figure :ref:fig1b`). At the same time, the different volumes along the 30 cantilevers are depicted in Figure :ref:`fig1c`. A final and mostly very common comparison is scenario 4, by comparing one of the most sensitive parameters to the force of the tip’s radii (see Figure :ref:`fig1d`).
```

    def compute(factor):
	direc = os.getcwd()
	for i in range(1,factor+1):
	    os.chdir(direc+'/PARALLELBASIC_0/'+
	    		str(i)+'/nrun')
	    os.system('python3 generate_cases.py
	    		&')
	    os.chdir(direc)

This function allows the proper execution of the parallel case without a queuing system and where a slight delay might appear from thread to thread execution.

Analysis
--------

Graphically
~~~~~~~~~~~

-  With static graphics, as shown in Figures `2 <#fig2a>`__, `3 <#fig3a>`__, `4 <#fig4a>`__ and `5 <#fig5>`__.

::

         python3 Graphical_analysis.py

-  With interactive graphics, as shown in `6 <#fig6a>`__.

::

         pip install plotly

::

         jupyter notebook Graphical_analysis.ipynb

Quantitatively
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  With static data table:

::

         python3 Quantitative_analysis.py

-  With interactive tables

   *Quantitative_analysis.ipynb* uses a minimalistic dashboard application for tabular data visualization `tabloo <https://github.com/bluenote10/tabloo>`__ with easy installation.: 

::

         pip install tabloo

::

         jupyter notebook Quantitative_analysis.ipynb

Results and discussions
=======================

> In Figure `1 <#fig1a>`__, we show four scenarios to be tackled in this test-case for pyDAMPF. As described in the introduction, the first scenario (Figure `1 <#fig1a>`__\ (a)), compares between air and moist environment, the second tackles soft and stiff cantilevers(see Figure `1 <#fig1b>`__\ (b)), next is Figure Figure `1 <#fig1c>`__\ (c) with the cantilever volume comparison and the force the tip’s radio (see Figure `1 <#fig1d>`__\ (d)). Further details of the cantilevers depicted here are included in Table `1 <#tab1>`__.

Reviewer: Use :ref:`fig1a` throughout to number the figure captions and the text references consistently

Author: @stargaser thanks for the suggestion, we have modified the referencing and captions and will commit the final version soon

> In Figure `1 <#fig1a>`__, we show four scenarios to be tackled in this test-case for pyDAMPF. As described in the introduction, the first scenario (Figure `1 <#fig1a>`__\ (a)), compares between air and moist environment, the second tackles soft and stiff cantilevers(see Figure `1 <#fig1b>`__\ (b)), next is Figure Figure `1 <#fig1c>`__\ (c) with the cantilever volume comparison and the force the tip’s radio (see Figure `1 <#fig1d>`__\ (d)). Further details of the cantilevers depicted here are included in Table `1 <#tab1>`__.

Reviewer: Recommend to use for consistent figure numbering:
```
Figure :ref:`fig1a`
Figure :ref:`tab1`
```

Author: @stargaser thanks for the suggestion, we have modified the referencing and captions and will commit the final version soon

.. figure:: casoa.png

    Schematic of the tip-sample interface comparing air at a given Relative Humidity with air. :label:`fig1a`

.. figure:: casob.png

    Schematic of the tip-sample interface comparing a hard (stiff) cantilever with a soft cantilever. :label:`fig1b`

.. figure:: casoc.png

    Schematic of the tip-sample interface comparing a cantilever with a high volume compared with a cantilever with a small volume. :label:`fig1c`

.. figure:: casod.png

    Schematic of the tip-sample interface comparing a cantilever with a wide tip with a cantilever with a sharp tip. :label:`fig1d`

> The AFM is widely used for mechanical properties mapping of matter :cite:`GarciaRev2021`. Hence, the first comparison of the four scenarios points out to the force response versus time according to a Hertzian interaction :cite:`GuzmanScalingBJON2015`. In Figure `2 <#fig2a>`__\ a, we see the humid air (RH = 60.1%) changes the measurement conditions by almost 10%. Using a stiffer cantilever (:math:`k_c=2.7 [N/m]`) will also increase the force by almost 50% from the softer one (:math:`k_c=0.8 [N/m]`), see Figure `2 <#fig2b>`__\ b. Interestingly, the cantilever’s volume, a smaller cantilever, results in the highest force by almost doubling the force by almost five folds of the smallest volume (Figure `2 <#fig2c>`__\ c). Finally, the Tip radius difference between 8 and 20 nm will impact the force in roughly 40 pN (Figure `2 <#fig2d>`__\ d).

Reviewer: To number the figure captions and in-text references in a consistent manner:
```
Figure :ref:`fig2a`
```

Author: @stargaser thanks for the suggestion, we have modified the referencing and captions and will commit the final version soon
